---
layout: post
title: Terrible Health Care
---

## Zuckerberg

The next few days were particularly painful. My finger itself didn’t hurt too much; it was numb, and have no feeling at all. The rest of my body was sore, though, and I started to realize that this injury was going to affect my ability to perform well at App Academy. I had been practicing typing daily for months, but found that my typing speed was severely impacted by the injury.

Then, on Sunday afternoon I received an email from App Academy mentioning that a member of the past cohort had to drop out due to developing carpal-tunnel syndrome from typing with bad posture, and reminding all members of the new cohort to take care of ourselves physically. It seemed obvious to me that this injury could negatively impact my learning experience, so I sent an email to the head instructor explaining what had happened.

The first day of App Academy did not go as I had formerly envisioned. I felt self-conscious about being injured (since I like to think of myself as a guy who can handle himself on a bicycle in urban traffic). I was thrilled by the quality of instruction, and greatly enjoyed paired-programming with intelligent classmates. During the coding exercises, my mind was fully engaged, and I temporarily let go of the complications I was facing, but at six o’clock, when classes were over, the sinking sensation returned.

I spoke directly with the head instructor, and showed him my injury. I mentioned that it might be best if I took a rain-check, and returned for a later cohort. By then I suspected that my right pinky finger was broken. I could barely move it, and it was pretty much numb.

The next tried to go get an X-ray before classes started. That was not possible. By nine o’clock, I had been informed that an X-ray at UCSF would be out of my price range ($2000 was the quote for for being entered into their system). The front-desk attendant who informed me about the pricing policy at UCSF suggested I visit Zuckerberg General Hospital (he called it “SF-General”), because he claimed they had a free clinic for people like me who were ‘between’ insurance policies.

The Muny ride across town took about one hour, and when I got to Zuckerberg General Hospital, I had no idea where to go. I first inquired at the cashier’s desk about where the ‘free clinic’ was. I explained that I wanted to see a doctor briefly to determine if an X-ray was necessary. He had never heard of such a thing.

I found an information desk in the main reception hall and asked them. They said there was no free clinic, but there was a discount medical services clinic called the Urgent Care Clinic. I thought that sounded like a good bet and went there.

It was a long wait, but ultimately I did see a doctor (though I later found out it was a nurse-practitioner, not a doctor). She agreed, somewhat reluctantly that I should get an X-ray. After the X-ray had been taken, she told me my finger was gonna be just fine, and that all I needed to do was “buddy tape” it to the ring finger next to it for a few weeks. I asked about the time-frame for recovery, and explained that I was in a high-intensity bootcamp. She didn’t seem to really get it, and said, “Just buddy-tape it for three to six weeks, and use your other fingers to type.”
