---
layout: post
title: Mmmmnn Pie
---

## Delicious Key-Lime Pie

Today I was lucky enough to enjoy some amazing pie. For that I am really
thankful. Not so sure I feel that way about webpack though.

I love the idea of a transpiler / minifier that helps you build smaller,
more efficient dependency packages to accompany your webpage, but sometimes
its implementation can be mysterious.

When I first started using Webpack, I didn't even really understand what
it was doing. I did understand that not using it limited my choices for
frameworks and syntaxes though. Without webpack, I had to write plain ES5
JS syntax (at least for import and export statements), and there was no
way to get SASS to work without some sort of build process.

Now at least I understand what its supposed to help me do, and I do appreciate
that. Yet I still don't feel confident or familiar with the syntax required
to transpile exactly what I want.

I know I need to figure our code-splitting and setting up a loader for each
special syntax I want to use, such as SASS or Coffeescript. But I am still
just trying to get it to run reliably. It's annoying to get bogged down
with dependency management, but I also understand that it will be worth it
once I gain confident understanding of how to leverage this technology,
and master minification for speedy deployment.

One amazing thing I learned about recently calls into question the necessity
of learning webpack. The team at Facebook released pretty solid build tools
for both react and react-native called create-react-app, and create-react-native-app.
I have started using them, and they do make development easier, and faster.
I definitely support the endeavor. However, I still feel compelled to dig
in and try to master webpack. My goal is to be able to break it down clearly
on this blog soon!
