---
layout: post
title: Learning Like Crazy
---

## Hustle is an Acquired Skill

There is so much to learn and so little time. For newcomers into any community
it is often difficult to determine what is the most important thing to learn
next. I have definitely been up against this recently.

Right now I am at a Dev Ops training program at the Amazon Pop-up Loft in
San Francisco. It is interesting, and I am absorbing a lot of information
about how AWS works and what services are available. I'm excited to try
putting a project up on their service just to explore and check it out.
I'm not really sure that this is the best use of my time now. I might be
better off doing a coding challenge or working on a new Rails app. But this
training includes free lunches, so it was pretty hard to pass up.

I think the most exciting technology that I learned about in the DevOps
Week at AWS was lambda functions. This is an approach to serverless hosting
that helps minimize server costs and separates microservices conveniently.
I have yet do deploy any of my own, but the basic idea is that you write
a specific function to handle a specific api endpoint and then uploade
that as a lambda function. So far only Python, Java and Node are supported,
but they said they will add Ruby soon. Once uploaded and activated, your
AWS account will be charges a few 'micro-pennies' for each 100ms of compute
time consumed by your lambda function when it processes requests. Since,
simple functions execute very quickly, you end up getting a great price
for hosting this way, as well as simple, easy to maintain hosting.
